Achieving accurate and reliable maize disease identification in complex environments is a huge challenge. This is because disease images obtained from natural environments are often in complex contexts that may contain elements similar to disease characteristics or symptoms. Maize is a major crop in China, with the largest planting area and yield, and also plays an important role in light industry, animal husbandry, and the national economy. Maize diseases not only reduce the maize yield but also affect the development of related industries and economies. At present, the manual method is the main method to identify maize diseases in China. The labor process of using manpower to identify maize diseases is not only inefficient, but also easy to be disturbed by subjective factors such as fatigue and emotion, and can only be identified when the obvious symptoms appear. Therefore, how recognizing disease of maize leaves quickly and accurately and taking appropriate control measures is of great significance to ensure maize production.Building a dataset and using deep learning methods for disease identification is a more efficient way.

Images in the lab dataset were obtained from Plant Village, an open-access repository containing pest and disease images of many crops that have been used by many scholars with good results. Therefore, we selected four types of maize leaf images from Plant Village to form the laboratory dataset, which has relatively simple background and is easy to identify and can be contrasted with the complex images in the natural environment.  
Most of the images in the natural environment dataset were acquired through field photography in Qingdao. Due to the limited variety of maize leaves available from field photography, we downloaded some open-source data of the natural environment as a supplement. All experimental protocols complied with all relevant guidelines and regulations.The four categories of corn leaves were Cercospora leaf spot, common rust, Northeast leaf blight, and Healthy. 
